[SPEAKER_01]: Hello and welcome to Veterans of the Valley.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'm Tom Turbyville.
[SPEAKER_01]: Ask Jack Upham about his nearly 15 years of military service and he'll be the first to tell you that his generation simply did what needed to be done, what needed to be done by all men and women who love their country.
[SPEAKER_01]: Nonetheless, his service in World War II and then in Korea were significant slices of his life.
[SPEAKER_01]: He was a ground soldier with the 27th Infantry Regiment at Luzon that spent a record 162 consecutive days in combat without relief.
[SPEAKER_01]: then in Korea, realizing his dream to be a pilot.
[SPEAKER_01]: A military career well served, and it is my pleasure to welcome Jack Uckham of College Station to Veterans of the Valley.
[SPEAKER_01]: Jack Uckham, thank you very much for being with us.
[SPEAKER_01]: Let's start from the beginning.
[SPEAKER_01]: You grew up in Mineral Wells.
[SPEAKER_01]: You said at age 12.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's when you knew you wanted to fly and you wanted to be a military man, right?
[SPEAKER_01]: That's right.
[SPEAKER_01]: And you were able to do that and went on to Riverside Military Academy.
[SPEAKER_01]: Sort of talk about your youth and how it led to the military career.
[SPEAKER_00]: Well, I just saw people flying, and we had a National Guard Force Cavalry Regiment there at Mineral Wells.
[SPEAKER_00]: And I guess I liked it.
[SPEAKER_00]: You liked it.
[SPEAKER_00]: So I went on to military school for part of my education.
[SPEAKER_00]: And being an ROTC school, I wound up with a second lieutenant's commission.
[SPEAKER_00]: and walked across the stage, got some papers and orders to active duty at the same time.
[SPEAKER_00]: Well, that was the fast track one.
[SPEAKER_00]: And three days later, I'm in Camp Walder, Texas.
[SPEAKER_00]: Of all the things, commanding a rifle company because the
[SPEAKER_00]: were short on officers that early in the stage.
[SPEAKER_00]: Had a first sergeant had been commanding the company for about nine months before.
[SPEAKER_00]: Very shortly thereafter, I wound up being sent to the 104th Division in Camp Adair, Oregon.
[SPEAKER_00]: And almost immediately out of there, over to the South Pacific and on to New Caledonia where the 27th Infantry, the 25th Division, was in there training to go on
[SPEAKER_00]: further up the islands.
[SPEAKER_01]: You probably had a little bit more training than most because of your experience way back at Riverside Military Academy.
[SPEAKER_01]: That was a school that was pretty much, you obviously did your books, you're reading, writing arithmetic, but 24-7 you were learning military and tactics at that school.
[SPEAKER_00]: Oh, we had tactics, we had maneuvers in there.
[SPEAKER_00]: Every spring and every fall we had specific maneuvers which were all carried out with the cadet corps commanders.
[SPEAKER_00]: We were given a mission and accomplished it.
[SPEAKER_00]: One of them was a defense of a river line of all things.
[SPEAKER_00]: And the approach march under hostile air conditions.
[SPEAKER_00]: These things all went on.
[SPEAKER_00]: And then with the ROTC summer camps that we all had to go to after the third year while you get a lot of
[SPEAKER_00]: a pretty healthy workout on those things.
[SPEAKER_01]: And like you said, being at Riverside and finishing that program, you were commissioned as, I guess, what, a second lieutenant coming out.
[SPEAKER_01]: And they needed officers because, as I believe you told me, you all had companies that were being commanded by first sergeants at the time.
[SPEAKER_01]: And that's why you were kind of fast-tracked to the Pacific.
[SPEAKER_00]: Well, that was the way it went.
[SPEAKER_00]: Terry Allen came back from the 25th Division and picked out a bunch of people.
[SPEAKER_00]: And got us shipped over, and that son of a gun kept on going to Europe and wound up commanding a division in the African invasion.
[SPEAKER_00]: So he got us, and we wound up down there, and that son of a gun went the other way.
[SPEAKER_01]: You were a member of the 27th Regiment of that 24th Division.
[SPEAKER_01]: And talk about that, as we mentioned, 162 straight days of combat without relief.
[SPEAKER_01]: And the Japanese were hitting you pretty much from night one, weren't they?
[SPEAKER_00]: People today don't know what a war is, Tom.
[SPEAKER_00]: They really don't.
[SPEAKER_00]: We went on over the beach in the Gulf of San Fernando, went inland on the first day, cut the main highway north and south.
[SPEAKER_00]: That night we were hit by a
[SPEAKER_00]: regiment from the Japanese 2nd Armored Division.
[SPEAKER_00]: We knocked out 92 of their tanks and armored vehicles, killed a couple hundred, captured a few, turned and went on north, uphill,
[SPEAKER_00]: into the highest mountains they had to the only pass there was for 162 consecutive days.
[SPEAKER_00]: It was like a meat grinder.
[SPEAKER_00]: You lose a few, they run a few in.
[SPEAKER_00]: You lose a few more, they run a few in.
[SPEAKER_00]: You lose your friends, after a while you don't know who's your friend and who isn't.
[SPEAKER_00]: You just keep going.
[SPEAKER_00]: Groundwater in those days was entirely different.
[SPEAKER_00]: The people doing it in those days were entirely different.
[SPEAKER_00]: I had a staff sergeant, Sergeant Cooley, squad leader.
[SPEAKER_00]: Japanese hand grenade came wandering in, a bunch of people around there, took his helmet off, put it over the hand grenade, put himself on the helmet,
[SPEAKER_00]: and we'd get him a Medal of Honor post-Hemesley.
[SPEAKER_00]: My best friend was the regimental chaplain.
[SPEAKER_00]: He'd wandered all over the battlefield standing up like he was trying to draw fire.
[SPEAKER_00]: He'd given last rites to people who were dying and helping the corpsmen out, hauling out casualties.
[SPEAKER_00]: Two days before we were pulled out, we're standing
[SPEAKER_00]: you know a relatively fire free area in there fights going on a couple hundred yards one side or the other a stray bullet comes in this man's been shot at people trying to kill him a hundred times went right between the eyes i reached down to help him up figured he'd fallen over face like
[SPEAKER_00]: That's the way it was.
[SPEAKER_00]: Yes, sir.
[SPEAKER_00]: They pulled us out.
[SPEAKER_00]: We were training to go over the beach.
[SPEAKER_00]: See, we were going over at Oweta down in Cuyahue was where we were supposed to go over the beach.
[SPEAKER_00]: We went on into the occupation, and I was stationed two miles away from the beach we were supposed to go over.
[SPEAKER_00]: would have been a massacre.
[SPEAKER_00]: But those are the things.
[SPEAKER_00]: But there's the 27th Infantry.
[SPEAKER_00]: Wonderful, wonderful unit.
[SPEAKER_01]: Among the awards that you brought home from the war were a couple of Purple Hearts.
[SPEAKER_01]: You referred to them as you got dinged a couple of times.
[SPEAKER_01]: Talk about that.
[SPEAKER_01]: You were wounded.
[SPEAKER_00]: I was very fortunate.
[SPEAKER_00]: I had an artillery shell go off in a tree, tree burst there, nasty.
[SPEAKER_00]: Knocked a big chunk of wood down, stuck, went through my pack, stuck in my back, not too badly.
[SPEAKER_00]: And just a graze, did a little bleeding off on my left leg.
[SPEAKER_00]: But another time in there, we had a lot of fun the way the things worked out in there.
[SPEAKER_00]: You'd haul you back down to a,
[SPEAKER_00]: MASH Hospital, I'd yank it out, clean the thing out, stuff it with sulfa drugs, jam a hydropodermic needle in your hind end with a new thing called penicillin.
[SPEAKER_00]: And they'd wrap it up real tight, take you out to the front gate,
[SPEAKER_00]: point you toward your outfit where it was and say goodbye.
[SPEAKER_00]: You went back to work.
[SPEAKER_01]: You went back to work.
[SPEAKER_01]: Went back to work.
[SPEAKER_01]: Patched up and go.
[SPEAKER_01]: You didn't want to fight the war though in that foxhole.
[SPEAKER_01]: You still had that dream that you wanted to fly.
[SPEAKER_01]: No way.
[SPEAKER_01]: So you put in for what's called Army Liaison Pilot School.
[SPEAKER_01]: Talk about that.
[SPEAKER_00]: Well, as soon as I got back, I had tried to get in the Air Corps before, but I put all the
[SPEAKER_00]: paperwork in and it followed me all the way till I got overseas and then they wouldn't ship you back from overseas to go to school so you just stayed there.
[SPEAKER_00]: But they had a liaison pilot school.
[SPEAKER_00]: That particular fly-in was over the front lines and behind the enemy lines.
[SPEAKER_00]: Justin Field Artillery doing reconnaissance work and dropping supplies and such things as this where people were cut off.
[SPEAKER_00]: And that sounded pretty good, so I put in for that.
[SPEAKER_00]: Managed to get on through it, went on through helicopter school, and then went to the 2nd Infantry Division in Fort Lewis.
[SPEAKER_00]: And got up there and took over the headquarters company aviation section.
[SPEAKER_00]: And again, almost immediately, I'm shipped out and I wind up over in Japan.
[SPEAKER_00]: down in Beppu in the 19th, where the 19th infantry was when I was division headquarters company aviation unit commander.
[SPEAKER_00]: And so lo and behold came the
[SPEAKER_00]: That little date in June of 1950, and the first thing we do is all of our little pilots and little airplanes were flying back and forth across the water, taking people over, taking staff people in to make their decisions what to do.
[SPEAKER_00]: And after the unit got in there, why, of course, we went back to our regular work.
[SPEAKER_00]: Yes, sir.
[SPEAKER_00]: But we went from the Combe River, which was the first bad debacle,
[SPEAKER_00]: back to the Nactau River where they managed to hold and we chewed just more or less put up a meat grinder and let them bang their heads down there till the Air Corps had just cut off their supplies and they were using up their ammunition and using up their men and not getting any replacements in so they had to start moving out.
[SPEAKER_00]: Right.
[SPEAKER_00]: And we chased them all the way up.
[SPEAKER_00]: I was about seven miles short of
[SPEAKER_00]: which is on the Yalu River, working with the 21st Infantry Regiment at that time.
[SPEAKER_00]: And I got to drop the message to tell them to turn around.
[SPEAKER_00]: It was time to choke you out of there because the Chinese had come in and chewed up the second division, which was my old division, which was on their right and farther back in and up in the mountains.
[SPEAKER_01]: Now we're talking about the early 50s now, so we've switched wars.
[SPEAKER_01]: We're talking Korea now.
[SPEAKER_00]: We're talking Korea.
[SPEAKER_01]: Korea.
[SPEAKER_01]: And your job is sort of an observation type thing.
[SPEAKER_01]: You were flying, observing the enemy, shooting field artillery at the enemy.
[SPEAKER_01]: Is that right?
[SPEAKER_01]: Is that what part of your job was?
[SPEAKER_01]: So you were actually flying a plane with a .45 under your arm.
[SPEAKER_01]: That was it.
[SPEAKER_00]: The people took a rather dim view of you looking down their throats and dropping artillery shells on them.
[SPEAKER_00]: So every once in a while they'd start popping away at you with their rifles or machine guns, whatever they had.
[SPEAKER_00]: They didn't have much in the way of anti-aircraft early.
[SPEAKER_00]: And we usually managed to pretty well suppress that.
[SPEAKER_00]: somebody was shooting at you you could get an idea where it was coming from where you drop a battery five volleys on him and told him not to do that anymore and if you missed him and got the fellow next to him he went over and talked to him and
[SPEAKER_00]: Neither one of them did it.
[SPEAKER_00]: So that was about the way it went.
[SPEAKER_00]: The light aircraft were constantly under fire.
[SPEAKER_00]: We were flying 500 to 1,000 feet because later on when the Chinese came in, we wound up with about 5,000 or 6,000.
[SPEAKER_00]: They came down there with some anti-aircraft guns.
[SPEAKER_01]: I asked you where you laid your head at night, and you said just the closest rice paddy to where the fighting was going on, right?
[SPEAKER_00]: The closest place that you could have your aircraft.
[SPEAKER_00]: We kept our airfields normally.
[SPEAKER_00]: We figured that if we were more than 10 minutes away from the front, we were too far back because people didn't have time to wait for them.
[SPEAKER_01]: Incredible.
[SPEAKER_01]: Talk about, let me go back.
[SPEAKER_01]: December of 49, you went to Japan.
[SPEAKER_01]: And your job, you were in charge of a headquarters company, Aviation Command.
[SPEAKER_01]: Is that right?
[SPEAKER_01]: And that was when the Korean War pretty much broke out.
[SPEAKER_01]: It broke out in June of 50.
[SPEAKER_01]: In June of 50.
[SPEAKER_01]: Lots of reconnaissance, like we talked about.
[SPEAKER_01]: Sort of kept a screen of aircraft at all times.
[SPEAKER_01]: over Korea.
[SPEAKER_00]: We had something over there from a half an hour before daylight to a half an hour after dark on top of the troops.
[SPEAKER_00]: Right.
[SPEAKER_00]: We had to.
[SPEAKER_00]: Our divisions when we went over there were Eric Johnson, our Secretary of War, was quite an industrialist, but he wasn't much of a soldier.
[SPEAKER_00]: Yes, sir.
[SPEAKER_00]: And we had lived on the fat from World War II, which meant our airplanes when we went over there
[SPEAKER_00]: were World War II leftovers, and they were getting pretty weary.
[SPEAKER_00]: And we worked on that basis for almost the entire war.
[SPEAKER_00]: An infantry regiment was supposed to have three battalions, and they chopped one out, which meant you had two battalions on the front and nothing in reserve, and that's what created the initial problems.
[SPEAKER_01]: Now, as I understand it, helicopters were in use at this time, but mainly as medevac helicopters.
[SPEAKER_01]: People who remember the popular TV show MASH, you seem to indicate that that was pretty accurate, how those were used.
[SPEAKER_00]: MASH was extremely accurate, including the old boy that was flying the helicopter at War of the Boots.
[SPEAKER_00]: His name was Bill Brake.
[SPEAKER_00]: Yes, sir.
[SPEAKER_00]: He was a classmate of mine.
[SPEAKER_00]: But...
[SPEAKER_00]: We didn't have them in there early because they were still pretty much experimental and they were still working around and didn't have too many pilots yet.
[SPEAKER_00]: So they came in there, I guess, in November or December, the first ones started getting in.
[SPEAKER_00]: Bill, he carried out 373 casualties from any place from 100 yards to 200 yards behind the front, sneaking in on the roads and sneaking in behind the trees.
[SPEAKER_00]: Right.
[SPEAKER_00]: Did it.
[SPEAKER_00]: Pretty good old boy.
[SPEAKER_01]: People who remember the TV show, they think about MASH and the mobile hospital.
[SPEAKER_01]: You said you actually spent nearly a month right next to one of those MASH hospitals.
[SPEAKER_00]: We did.
[SPEAKER_00]: I never can remember this daggone little time.
[SPEAKER_00]: We were flying out of a riverbed about
[SPEAKER_00]: We were about four miles behind the front on the Nactong.
[SPEAKER_00]: And there was a Mash Hospital back there supporting us.
[SPEAKER_00]: So we found a riverbed in there and made a little airfield, moved the whole outfit in there behind it.
[SPEAKER_00]: And we were right across the road from Mash Hospital.
[SPEAKER_00]: So we wound up actually feeding with them
[SPEAKER_00]: And in return, we were flying back to Japan and bringing them in loads of whole blood and flying some bad casualties back for them there as well as doing our old job.
[SPEAKER_00]: And we sure wore those airplanes out in a hurry.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'll bet you did.
[SPEAKER_01]: I want to fast forward because you have a story about a plane called an L-19 bird dog.
[SPEAKER_01]: One day in March of 1951, you went out and you got in a plane.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'm going to let you take the story from there.
[SPEAKER_00]: it to replace our old worn-out airplanes.
[SPEAKER_00]: They had a program on coming up with some new machines and they finally decided to have Cessnas L-19 and an absolutely magnificent airplane and still is today.
[SPEAKER_00]: So this was long after the war had started and I had been gone back to I-Corps
[SPEAKER_00]: and then back in Japan again.
[SPEAKER_00]: So I got a call to set up a unit to train L-19 pilots, and ferry the ones that were coming to us from the States, they brought them into Kisari Zoo, the Naval Air Station, and they ship them in there, they take them out of the box and put them together.
[SPEAKER_00]: And they said the first shipment was 100 of them.
[SPEAKER_00]: And so that's fine, but the only thing is I'd never flown one.
[SPEAKER_00]: Neither had anybody else.
[SPEAKER_00]: And we didn't know how good the Navy was at putting them together.
[SPEAKER_00]: And where am I going to get pilots?
[SPEAKER_00]: It was quite a job.
[SPEAKER_00]: Indeed.
[SPEAKER_00]: But anyway, I went over there and checked myself out and did what I had to do to be able to fly it and checked a couple of other people out.
[SPEAKER_00]: And then we went over and we'd pick up new pilots coming in from the States.
[SPEAKER_00]: And they'd all been trained in little airplanes half that size and complicated.
[SPEAKER_00]: We'd take them over and check them out.
[SPEAKER_00]: We'd take flights of 10 of them.
[SPEAKER_00]: and fly down from Yokohama to Brady Field on Kyushu and then we'd fly them across the water about 110 or 15 miles and nothing but sharks that got in picking water because of the
[SPEAKER_00]: Navy ran their main line over there, threw the garbage over there.
[SPEAKER_00]: You didn't have to know what has to get over there.
[SPEAKER_01]: You just followed the flaming sharks.
[SPEAKER_01]: So in March of 1951, you found yourself in one of these L-19s in that situation.
[SPEAKER_01]: And then the nightmare for all pilots happened to you.
[SPEAKER_01]: The nightmare of all pilots.
[SPEAKER_00]: I walked out and crawled in an airplane.
[SPEAKER_00]: Took this flight at 10 and went down.
[SPEAKER_00]: Spent the night.
[SPEAKER_00]: Took off early in the morning to go to Korea.
[SPEAKER_00]: About 35 miles out, my engine quit.
[SPEAKER_00]: Just flat quit.
[SPEAKER_00]: Right over these shark-infested waters.
[SPEAKER_00]: By the grace of God, I got the thing back.
[SPEAKER_00]: We've got pictures of it.
[SPEAKER_00]: Got the thing and thing back to the beach.
[SPEAKER_00]: Managed to get it down on one wheel because if I could put it on two, it would have
[SPEAKER_00]: cartwheel over into the water.
[SPEAKER_00]: And then we discovered that it happened to be the first production model out of the entire run.
[SPEAKER_00]: And we also discovered that it had two heads full of grass in each wing tank that had been sabotaged.
[SPEAKER_01]: I'm going to stop you there because you actually have pictures of this event after you did land on the beach.
[SPEAKER_01]: I want to go ahead and go to them.
[SPEAKER_01]: We've got some photographs here.
[SPEAKER_01]: You can see the picture right there.
[SPEAKER_01]: Now, this picture is taken with another L-19.
[SPEAKER_00]: Oh, this was much later.
[SPEAKER_01]: This was much later, but I just wanted to get a picture of you with your pipe in front of an L-19.
[SPEAKER_00]: That one there, I was checking out a pilot, and he took the picture and gave it to me.
[SPEAKER_00]: This was in Japan on a nice field.
[SPEAKER_01]: I wanted to show what the plane looked like in a picture of you back then.
[SPEAKER_01]: Now let's go ahead and move on to the next picture.
[SPEAKER_01]: And this is a long shot of the beach, and there in the background is your plane after you had crash landed.
[SPEAKER_00]: That's it.
[SPEAKER_01]: And you can see the wheel ruts right here in the foreground of the picture.
[SPEAKER_00]: That's the tail wheel.
[SPEAKER_01]: That's the tail wheel.
[SPEAKER_00]: It brought it in almost full stall in order to keep ground speed down and dragged the tail wheel in there to cut down the speed.
[SPEAKER_00]: And then on down the line you can see, but not in this picture, not the way this shows.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: We're going to move a little bit closer with the next picture.
[SPEAKER_01]: And there you go.
[SPEAKER_01]: There's a picture that really shows it.
[SPEAKER_00]: Now, if you look...
[SPEAKER_00]: about a half breadth over from the one big deep one, you can see that very, very faint line.
[SPEAKER_00]: That was where the other wheel was touching down as we rolled to a stop.
[SPEAKER_00]: The airplane's been pulled off center to hook it up to the weasel.
[SPEAKER_00]: But very faint line in there and that wheel's been pulled off of it.
[SPEAKER_00]: But there was no way, if I had put the weight on both wheels on that slope,
[SPEAKER_00]: it would have kicked me right off into the water and probably rolled the airplane up.
[SPEAKER_00]: So I was proud of that.
[SPEAKER_00]: I never flew as well before and never flew as well after.
[SPEAKER_01]: Now we're going to fast forward several years.
[SPEAKER_01]: You're watching a TV program on PBS about an aviation museum in Alabama.
[SPEAKER_01]: And they show an airplane.
[SPEAKER_01]: And you see that 01327
[SPEAKER_01]: And here is that same exact airplane that we just saw on the beach that you discover is hanging in a museum in Alabama.
[SPEAKER_00]: That's correct.
[SPEAKER_00]: Pretty amazing.
[SPEAKER_00]: I pulled all the old reports and pictures I had.
[SPEAKER_00]: Yes, sir.
[SPEAKER_00]: Took them over there, gave them to the curator, and he went into orbit because they had absolutely no records of what it had done.
[SPEAKER_01]: All they had is an airplane hanging from the ceiling.
[SPEAKER_00]: They had an airplane and a few rumors.
[SPEAKER_00]: So that at least got it...
[SPEAKER_00]: got things started.
[SPEAKER_00]: And a couple of years ago, another old boy, same age, came wandering through the museum, looked up and said, hey, I flew that thing in Korea with the first cavalry division in 61 and 62.
[SPEAKER_00]: Said it was the worst flying airplane that he'd ever been in in his life.
[SPEAKER_00]: Wouldn't hold a trim, worked a pilot to death.
[SPEAKER_00]: They took him down and pulled these pictures and one wingtip dragged in the, oh,
[SPEAKER_00]: water and the other one dragging the sand and the process of all of this.
[SPEAKER_00]: He took a look at that and he says, no, don't go in wonder.
[SPEAKER_00]: It was a lot of fun.
[SPEAKER_00]: An amazing story.
[SPEAKER_00]: Mac Gibson.
[SPEAKER_00]: He walked, Mac walked up in Vietnam, ended up a full colonel.
[SPEAKER_00]: He was a good boy.
[SPEAKER_00]: He was a good pilot.
[SPEAKER_01]: You were able to actually go to Alabama and go to the museum and see it yourself.
[SPEAKER_00]: I spent a lot of time over there because I had a whole batch of records and things that they didn't have.
[SPEAKER_00]: And it's been a world of fun working with them.
[SPEAKER_01]: We need to fast forward some.
[SPEAKER_01]: We just got a few minutes left, but you went back after your service overseas.
[SPEAKER_01]: Fort Sill is a fixed wing instructor and a helicopter instructor.
[SPEAKER_01]: Fall of 1952, you developed a case of polio.
[SPEAKER_00]: Case of polio.
[SPEAKER_00]: One of the last polio bunches that went through there, 42 of us.
[SPEAKER_01]: Right.
[SPEAKER_01]: whereas otherwise they might have asked you to leave right then, you still had some value obviously to the Army and you served in another capacity.
[SPEAKER_00]: Well, they asked me if I'd stay on to do a job.
[SPEAKER_00]: Helicopters were becoming more plentiful and we'd worked a lot on the
[SPEAKER_00]: vertical envelopment, which is what they wound up doing in Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_00]: And so the National Guard and the reserve units did not have helicopters.
[SPEAKER_00]: So I went to Austin to the Texas Military District, spent four years over there recruiting people to go to school and establishing units.
[SPEAKER_00]: and getting the pilots and the aircraft into the National Guard and into the reserve units, set up a transportation corps heavy lift battalion of headquarters up at Fort Worth and got that job done and said, that's all boys.
[SPEAKER_01]: Jack Upham, you and your wife Nancy had two sons and two daughters.
[SPEAKER_01]: You lost your wife 15 years ago.
[SPEAKER_01]: You lost a son in Vietnam, Jack Sr.
[SPEAKER_00]: Well, I lost him to Vietnam.
[SPEAKER_00]: He was very badly.
[SPEAKER_00]: Right.
[SPEAKER_00]: Injured over there.
[SPEAKER_00]: And four craniotomies and all of that.
[SPEAKER_00]: They gave him nine months to live.
[SPEAKER_00]: He lasted nine years and had a blast doing it.
[SPEAKER_00]: Wonderful years indeed.
[SPEAKER_00]: They were wonderful years.
[SPEAKER_01]: We've got a couple of minutes left.
[SPEAKER_01]: I want you to talk about your dear, dear companion.
[SPEAKER_01]: His name is Trooper.
[SPEAKER_01]: We've got a picture of you and Trooper.
[SPEAKER_01]: And you all are both survivors, aren't you?
[SPEAKER_00]: I had an old dog, Noodle, for years.
[SPEAKER_00]: Everybody in town knew her.
[SPEAKER_00]: Anyway, I lost her.
[SPEAKER_00]: Went down to the shelter to scratch some ears from time to time for about a year.
[SPEAKER_00]: Walked in there one day.
[SPEAKER_00]: There was a yellow lab.
[SPEAKER_00]: No hair on him.
[SPEAKER_00]: Gunshot, a load of birdshot in his right shoulder.
[SPEAKER_00]: Weighed about half of what he should.
[SPEAKER_00]: They had a call to go pick up a dead dog.
[SPEAKER_00]: How are we doing on time?
[SPEAKER_00]: We've got about a minute.
[SPEAKER_00]: Okay.
[SPEAKER_00]: Anyway, they picked him up, brought him back up there, and he was unable to navigate, actually.
[SPEAKER_00]: They figured they were going to have to put him in the oven.
[SPEAKER_00]: I went out and he raised up on his elbows, went wimp, and that was the end of that.
[SPEAKER_00]: He's been with me now for over a year.
[SPEAKER_00]: And he's a good guy.
[SPEAKER_00]: He's a good guy.
[SPEAKER_01]: Big old handsome rascal, just as happy as a bug in a rug.
[SPEAKER_01]: Well, while you were talking, we got to see a picture of you and Trooper.
[SPEAKER_01]: And as we're taping this, Trooper's getting the bath today, so I'm sure he's feeling really good right now.
[SPEAKER_01]: He'll be unfit to live with for a little while.
[SPEAKER_01]: I got to meet Trooper the other day when I was at your home, and it was a pleasure.
[SPEAKER_01]: He's a good, good companion.
[SPEAKER_01]: No way you're going to avoid it.
[SPEAKER_01]: No way you're going to avoid it at all.
[SPEAKER_01]: Jack Upham, thank you very much for your service.
[SPEAKER_01]: I know that you're proud of all service people, and I know that you have a special thought about service.
[SPEAKER_01]: Very, very special thoughts.
[SPEAKER_01]: Yes, sir.
[SPEAKER_01]: Thank you for your service.
[SPEAKER_01]: Thank you very much for having me.
[SPEAKER_01]: I appreciate it.
[SPEAKER_01]: Jack Upham served the country he loves proudly, but he rightly insists that the real salutes should go to those men and women who paid the ultimate price.
[SPEAKER_01]: He says that it is those brave Americans we should be raising up.
[SPEAKER_01]: We do salute you, Jack Upham, for your brave service.
[SPEAKER_01]: You and Trooper are survivors, and we wish you well in your retirement.
[SPEAKER_01]: Thanks to our underwriter, First National Bank, and be sure to read other stories of other veterans in Brazos Valley Heroes every Sunday in the Eagles
[SPEAKER_01]: I'm Tom Turbyville for Jack Upham.
[SPEAKER_01]: We'll see you next time on Veterans of the Valley.
[SPEAKER_00]: Thank you.
Amen.